# EA-SPORTS
Title: "An Empirical Bayes Approach to Integrate Multiple GWAS with Gene Expressions from Multiple Tissues."

To date, a large number of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been conducted. With advancement of array techniques, there are a large number of genomic data available from multiple sources: e.g., gene expression data from multiple tissues. The unbiased tissue studies can reveal new dimensions of biological effects [Dermitzakis, 2012]. Thus, it becomes essential to integrate gene expression from multiple tissues with GWAS that can increase the statistical power of the analysis of a single GWAS. 

We propose to use empirical-Bayes-based approach to model the status of each gene (null or non-null) enhanced by gene expression from tissues. We develop an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm to optimize the corresponding complete log-likelihood function. These methods can jointly analyze two or more GWAS at the same time to test for the ``pleiotropic" effects. We can also evaluate the significance of integrating a tissue. To integrate multiple tissues, we propose a three-stage strategy using penalized linear discriminant analysis (LDA) to transform expressions from multiple tissues to the new predictor with much lower dimension. Meanwhile, we estimate the corresponding local false discovery rate (FDR) and formulate the hypothesis testing for ''pleiotropy" and identification of associated tissues. Simulation studies are used to evaluate finite sample performance. We make comparison under different level of ``pleiotropy" using generative model. Rheumatoid arthritis and type-1 diabetes from the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium (WTCCC) together with gene expression from multiple tissues are analyzed using the proposed approach.
